---
title: "Grunt, jekyll and D3.js - Together!!!"
tags: 
  - grunt
  - jekyll
  - d3js
  - data visualization
permalink: "/content/grunt-jekyll-and-d3js"
layout: post
published: true
---

Finishing the 2014, we work in a interesting project, to create an mobile web site for an exposition in two different languages for a museum in madrid [Casa del Lector](http://www.gizra.com/content/casa-del-lector/).

So, in the beginning of the project, we know that the data (a lot of XML without schema) come from an client application used by the museum application.

and a predefine design site. But also with the condition that the information will change many times during our development.

(we have a bunch of data in XML files, comming from the client, by mail, without server.)

<!-- more -->

---

In short, we need to build a Site Autogenerated Backendless. Sound fancy, ;) but it's just a short way to explain, how the great tools of the Web Platform of today, help us to solve the questions in this project.

# How convert the XML data in node system navigation?

The site it's target to mobile, the visitor of the exposition navigate  (iPad and Android phone) and the follow

# How we publish the XML data received, every time these changed?



# How autogenerated the pages?


# How was possible to do?

Gizra way


we need to do the right encoding every time.

Every project in Gizra are a exciting challenge, give you the oportunity to work with poeple really smart, creative and passionate in the (code :) ) best for the clients and the community".